fix: updating the Docker Repository credential configuration (#2645)
jenkins-x/jx-docs: content/en/docs/reference/components/docker-registry.md

It needs to contain a _docker_ configuration section, similar to this:

```yaml
enableDocker: true
docker:
  email: <email>
  password: vault:<cluster-name>/docker:password
  url: <url>
  username: <username>
```

If you have been using the default registry your `env/parameters.yaml` might not contain a _docker_ section at all.
If so, add the required configuration and make sure to set `enableDocker: true`.

The password uses a special format which allows to reference secrets from your configured [secret store](/docs/install-setup/installing/boot/secrets/).
[Injecting secrets into the parameters](/docs/install-setup/installing/boot/how-it-works/#injecting-secrets-into-the-parameters) describes in more detail how secrets work in conjunction with `env/parameters.yaml`.

{{% alert %}}
An alternative approach is to just set `enableDocker: true` and run `jx boot` locally.
In this case, it will interactively ask for the required parameters again and persist them into `env/parameters.yaml` and the underlying secret store.
{{% /alert  %}}

## Update secret store

The next step is to make sure the password is stored in the secret store.

> Assuming you are using [Vault](/docs/install-setup/installing/boot/secrets/#vault) as secret store, you need to make sure the secret identified by the URI _vault:\<cluster-name\>/docker:password_ exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming you are using [Vault](/docs/install-setup/installing/boot/secrets/#vault) as the secret store, you need to make sure the secret identified by the URI _vault:\<cluster-name\>/docker:password_ exists.
```

This can be achieved by running (you need the `vault` CLI installed for that):

```sh
eval $(jx get vault-config)
vault kv put /secret/<cluster-name>/docker passwor=<my-password>
```

> You find more information on how to interact with your secrets in Vault in the [Manage your secrets](/docs/reference/components/vault/) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find more information on how to interact with Vault secrets in the [Manage your secrets](/docs/reference/components/vault/) section.
```

## Update Kubernetes provider configuration

> Last but not least, you need to make sure that the correct Docker authentication `config.json` gets generated and stored in the Kubernetes Secret `jenkins-docker-cfg` (within your development namespace).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you need to make sure that the correct Docker authentication `config.json` gets generated and stored in the Kubernetes Secret `jenkins-docker-cfg` (within your development namespace).
```

If that is not the case adjust `values.tmpl.yaml` to match the format required by your registry.

The following sections describe some of the typical `config.json` formats used by various Docker registries.

### Google Container Registry (GCR)

If you want to use GCR, you can create your `config.json` by running:

```sh
gcloud auth configure-docker
```

The above command will ask you to confirm writing a _credHelpers_ section to your `config.json` in your home directory under `.docker/config.json`.
It is sufficient to place the _credHelpers_ section into a new `config.json`.
The content should look similar to:

```json
 {
  "credHelpers": {
    "gcr.io": "gcloud",
    "marketplace.gcr.io": "gcloud",
    "eu.gcr.io": "gcloud",
    "us.gcr.io": "gcloud",
    "staging-k8s.gcr.io": "gcloud",
    "asia.gcr.io": "gcloud"
  }
}
```

### Elastic Container Registry (ECR)

For AWS and its  Elastic Container Registry (ECR), the `config.json` looks like:

```json
{
    "credsStore": "ecr-login"
}
```

### Docker Hub

If you want to publish images to Docker Hub, then you need a `config.json` with and _auth_ section containing your Docker Hub auth token.

> Something like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:
```

```json
{
    "auths": {
        "https://index.docker.io/v1/": {
            "auth": "MyDockerHubToken"
        }
    }
}
```

Check `.docker/config.json` in your home directory to see whether it contains the required configuration.

If you don't have a `.docker/config.json`, you can run:

```sh
docker login -u <username> -p <password>
```

On macOS you might find something like this:

```json
"credsStore": "osxkeychain"
```

> in `.docker/config.json` without and _auths_ section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in `.docker/config.json` without an _auths_ section.
```

---

To be able to create and publish docker images we need to use a Docker Registry.

> If you want to change the default registry you will need to configure and update the `jenkins-docker-cfg` Kuberenetes Secret in the Jenkins X system namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to change the default registry you will need to configure and update the `jenkins-docker-cfg` Kubernetes Secret in the Jenkins X system namespace (named by default `jx`).
```

The following sections contain examples for various repository types.

## Creating `config.json`

### Google Container Registry (GCR)

> If you wany to use GCR you can create your `config.json` by running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to use GCR you can create your `config.json` by running:
```

### Docker Hub

If you want to publish images to Docker Hub then you need a `config.json` with and _auth_ section containing your Docker Hub auth token.
Something like:

```json
{
    "auths": {
        "https://index.docker.io/v1/": {
            "auth": "MyDockerHubToken"
        }
    }
}
```

Check `.docker/config.json` in your home directory to see whether it contains the required configuration.

If you don't have a `.docker/config.json`, you can run:

```sh
docker login -u <username> -p <password>
```

On macOS you might find something like this:

```json
"credsStore": "desktop"
```

in `.docker/config.json` without and _auths_ section.
In this case you can delete the _credsStore_ line and run:

```sh
docker logout
docker login -u <username> -p <password>
```

Once you have your custom `config.json` refer to [Updating the config.json secret](/docs/reference/components/docker-registry/#updating-the-jenkins-docker-cfg-secret) to see how to update the `jenkins-docker-cfg` Secret.

### jFrog BinTray (Artifactory)

> Using the jFrog BinTray as a private registry is possible.  This has only been tested when creating a new cluster and passing the `--docker-registry=private-reg.bintray.io`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the jFrog BinTray as a private registry is possible. This has only been tested when creating a new cluster and passing the `--docker-registry=private-reg.bintray.io`.
```

    }
}
```

Once you have your custom `config.json` refer to [Updating the config.json secret](/docs/reference/components/docker-registry/#updating-the-jenkins-docker-cfg-secret) to see how to update the `jenkins-docker-cfg` Secret.

## Updating the jenkins-docker-cfg secret

Provided you have your custom `config.json`, you can update the `jenkins-docker-cfg` secret by running:

```sh
kubectl delete secret jenkins-docker-cfg -n jx
kubectl create secret generic jenkins-docker-cfg -n jx --from-file=./config.json
```

> **NOTE**: the file must be called `config.json` as the file name is used in the key of the underlying `Secret` in kubernetes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**NOTE**: the file must be called `config.json` as the file name is used in the key of the underlying `Secret` in kubernetes.
```
